# Solid Authorization Panel
October 14th, 2020

# Present

- Justin B
- Henry S
- e Pavlik
- Sarven C


# Agenda

- PR
    - Client constraints - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/117/
    - Consolidated survery - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/118
    - Music app - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/113
- Issues
    - What permissions are required for delete - https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/197#issuecomment-700625490

# Minutes

## Consolidated survey - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/118

- Will merge, CSARVEN to submit a follow-on formatting update

## Hindia survey response - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/110

- Awaiting her to join the CG prior to merge

## Propose Access request with LDN - github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/28

- JB to review with Ruben to ensure that he's comfortable interop work replaces and/or satisfies this proposal

## What permissions are required for delete - https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/197#issuecomment-700625490

PAVLIK: what are the use cases where you want read/write on a resource but not be able to delete it?

PAVLIK: not convinced that a filesystem pattern is an intuitive way to think about this - especially for future adopters

SC: Solution proposed in #197 is consistent with what we have now. If we go through use cases we could end up in different location. Delete mode may be a solution.

JB: Need explicit use cases added into the UCR doc

HS: Will comment on the issue thread

# Action Items

- Merging #117 means that the use case under Permissioning Application needs it own named heading, and also will need to be reflected in the survey.
- Any use cases that have been submitted - please also update the survey. Any new use cases should also update the survey as well as part of the initial PR.
