# Solid Authorization Panel
2021-02-03

## Call
* https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization


## Present
* Justin Bingham
* Dmitri Zagidulin
* Henry Story
* Elf Pavlik
* Emmet Townsend
* Sarven Capadisli
* Aaron Coburn
* Matthieu Bosquet
* Josh Collins
* Martynas Jusevicius


## Agenda

* Announcements
    * Schedule for meeting with Credentials Group      
* Review Minutes
    * See [prior minutes](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/161) (2m)
* Pull Requests    
    *  https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/152 (5m - status)
* Issues
    * [Efficiency (issue 162)](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/162): a non functional requirement, or a larger use case, or both? 
* Topic Items
    * Acceptance / merge of UCR

## Minutes

Justin Bingham excuses himself that he will need to leave early
due to family obligations with child play (or something).
... also points out that CSarven will be late for some other reason
... arriving around 25 minutes in.

### Schedule for Credentials CG Presentation

Feb 24th - our presentation (using current panel time slot)
Feb 24th - presentation back to us (three hours later - their weekly slot)

## UCT

Justin: suggesting getting this done in the next two weeks before Credentials CG presentation. 
... Proposes: Feb 17th for Milestone agreed upon target for Merge of UCR. With merge that day. 

  Everyone seems to agree.

With potential extra meetings before then.

bblfish: free all time except 10am ET Mon-Wed for Solid meetings.
 ... suggests everyone writes down the times in the pad they are free.
 
CSarven joins call.

Justin:
- Monday 8AM-10AM ET / 2PM-5PM ET
- Weds 3PM-5PMET
- Thursday 10AM-1PM ET / 2PM-5PM ET
- Friday 8AM-11AM ET / 2PM-5PM ET

Sarven:
- Thurs 09-10am ET
- Friday 08-09am ET

ericP (probably not critical for UC&R discussion):
- Monday 08am-11am ET
- Tuesday 08am-10am / 11am-13pm ET
- Wednesday 08am-11am / 12pm-13pm ET
- Thursday 08am-11am / 12pm-13pm ET
- Friday 08am-13pm ET

Mathieu:
Free most of the time and also not required for the meeting to happen. No objection for Friday after 10am ET.

Emmet
- Thursday 2pm - 5pm ET
- Friday 7am - 8:30 am ET, 10am onwards
- Monday 1pm onwards
- Tuesday 10am-11am ET, 12pm ET onwards 
- Wednesday 10 AM ET onwards
- Thursday 11am - 12pm ET
- Friday 12pm onwards
- Monday 11:30am ET onwards
- Tuesday 10am - 12pm ET, 1pm ET onwards

Pavlik
- Mon - Fri 10am - 6pm ET

Jusin excuses himself. Has to leave.
Emmet leaves too, so does Matthieu, Josh, Martynas and Dmitri

Left: Henry Story, CSarven, Aaron Coburn, and Elf Pavlik

## Issue 162

Henry: 
   Should the Efficiency use case be a story, a functional requirement or
   a non functional requirement?

CSarven: 
   propose to add a non functional requirements section. 
Elf Pavilik: 
   The use case as shown in the issue 162 does not have enough authorization features
CSarven: 
   describes his example with Dokieli and TLS client certificates where annotations at different servers require authn/z [here](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/123#issuecomment-768606815)
Elf Pavlik: 
   If resources are public there is no problem. 
   Arguing that the examples are too hypothetical.
Eric Prudheaummeux:
   Functional requirements are how it is meant to behave
   What would non-functional requirements?
Henry Story:
   Non functional would be how the system as a whole functions? (a guess)
Eric: 
   Don't bother with non-functional requirement section
   but add a use case which makes it clear and add a functinoal requirement.
   
## Feedback on UCR

Henry: What do we do with the feedback?
It seems that all the feedback on the first use cases 
is a bit negative, and we should improve the examples
to be more realistic

Eric: that's marketing, but important

Henry: also should we add a sentence, about "not all the use
case will necessarily be implemented in the first stage"
   
