# W3C Solid Community Group: Authorization Panel

* Date: 2021-10-06T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel


## Present
* elf Pavlik
* Matthieu Bosquet
* Barath
* Henry Story
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Elf Pavlik
* Matthieu Bosquet

---

## Topics

## PRs for minutes

* Henry: I see value in looking at previous meeting minutes before merging.
* Matthieu: +1
* Henry: I think we could have branch meetings an make PR on that branch...
* Matthieu: Why not just have branch for the PR of specific meeting, which gets deleted after merging.
* Henry: If we refer to something that's in a branch that will be deleted before it's merged, as soon as the PR is merged, the branch is deleted and the reference is lost.
* Elf: Why not use the main branch?
* Henry: To get the vote.
* Elf: Wouldn't it be the same by adding to the main branch?
* Henry: At the beginning everyone will need to +1.
* Matthieu: We could squash and merge all changes to one commit per meeting.
* Elf: Today instead of creating the Pad on the day of a meeting, we should do it a week ahead.
* Henry/Matthieu: I can start doing that. If PRs not being referencable, we can try to have one branch for meetings.
* Henry: +1
* Pavlik: If you put effort into managing it, it's great.

ACTION: Matthieu to take over pad creation and meeting branch management.


### ACP and ACRs for Auxiliary Resources

* Pavlik: It comes out of the conversation about access modes and operations (maybe 253). One was about control access modes. I'm not for the wac:Control access modes. I myself think only the owner of storage can control access, others should not.
* ...: I also think about addressing the Auxiliary resources. If ACP expects every resource including auxiliary to have their own ACR, then how would that work?
* ...: How to set access on auxiliary resources.
* Matthieu: How does WAC deals with that problem?
* Pavlik: Control would be how you set access to access control itself. But if you have described by, such as shape validation. Do you know how that works in wac Justin or Eric?
* Eric: I don't know really how WAC does it.
* ... I'm curious about Pavlik's comment about removing control and using delegation instead.
* ... That is unmanaged control that is filtered control and the delegation provides a filter on that.
* Pavlik: No it relates with how we do things in the interop panel. The user always needs an authorization agent they trust. It seems practical that the owner of the storage can solely update the ACRs.
* ... Then other things happen if someone delegates.
* ... The delegation would be something different.
* ... The authorization agent would never write to the source authorization for data user doesn't own.
* Eric: You want the user to have different authorization tools for different cases. Say there's an engine that does ACL manipulation for you, we're de facto pushing it and hiding it instead of having a Solid compliant way of dealing with authz.
* Justin: There is just an ask about access modes for shape tree validation. I'm happy to respond to that.
* ...: The short answer is: there is no great answer yet to shape tree validation/access control. The current modes Read/Write/Control. If talking about data validation and you want to change that resource that controls validation, you could bypass security.
* ... You might want someone to have higher privileges to modify validation data.
* ... But control is maybe not appropriate to manage validation criteria.
* ... We need to discuss what is required to manipulate those validation resources.
* ... Shape trees, the server is responsible for assigning them.
* ... You establish validation rules much like you'd establish permissions.
* ... If you want people to add their own validation, we have a bit of things to figure out.
* Barath: If you assign shape tree that you don't want, `edit needed`.
* Justin: In essence, whoever is responsible for the data space in which you're opperating; I'm gonna say it must conform to what I define. It seems like the most common and relevant case.
* Barath: Somebody ok with the default shape tree but wants to further restrict?
* Justin: The spec allows you to stack them like you described.
* Eric: That could be powerful, it reminds me of XML schema validation and using schematron. Stacked/additional validation scheme makes sense as you increase the specificity of domain validation tools.
* Henry: Elf is suggesting that control be deprecated, I'm for that.
* ... But which controls give us the same or more adequate ways to do things?
* ... Elf described the owner having access to all the ACRs.
* ... There is an ACP solution which would be nice to have described in our comparison chart.
* ... I can give an answer by showing how to give the same solution via a link header that could be self referencing to the ACR of a resource.
* ... There might be a way to say that one person can edit all ACRs.
* Elf: ACR is managed by the server. If an ACR is defined for an ACR, then it links to itself, where do you cut loops?
* Henry: Exactly, we have to describe the solution and compare. The obvious thing is that you link to yourself to cut infinite recursion. How do you set default for those rules in ACP?
* Eric: I think acl on acl is rocket science. If acl on acl exists, bob may create acl on acl on acl.
* Henry: Serve may link every acl to itself. You can do everything that current system does.
* Eric: How do you prevent someone from creating acl on acl on acl
* Henry: The server sets the link so it would not do it.
* Eric: Ok in this way you could close the loop.
* Henry: In solid I see headers is where the server says things.
* ...: You could also have acl having different acl and this way have levels of access control.
* Pavlik: Can we clarify default access on ACRs? Where would those be? Maybe make an action to write down something about the delegation pattern where only the resource owner can edit an ACR?

ACTION: Pavlik to write down approach where only storage owner writes to ACRs and delegation handles others, sharing their access.

* Matthieu: If you are the resource owner you always have right to edit the effective ACR for the resource. You may not have r-w to the resource but always to their ACR.
* Pavlik: What about inheritence?
* Matthieu: Every ACR can define access applied to the resource and itself. ACP uses accessMembers to inherit acess to ACRs.
* Henry: Come up with a simple control example and then extend it in the [evaluations folder](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/tree/main/proposals/evaluation).
* Pavlik: Having accessMembers, would you need to use the Control Mode ever?
* Matthieu: The way it's intended is to never use Control access mode. If someone were to use Control access mode it would be better to do it using ...
* Pavlik: I think we have example for resources, but not ACRs.
* Henry: Can we have that example about ACR inheritance in the [evaluations folder](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/tree/main/proposals/evaluation)? It would help healthy coop/competition.
* Matthieu: I don't see why not.

ACTION: Matthieu to write inheritance for ACRs of members of a container in the [evaluations folder](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/tree/main/proposals/evaluation).


### ACP CSS efforts

* Justin: Open question, now that we have draft PR for ACP merged. If we compare it to Solid-OIDC we had some implementation coming. Is there effort to get ACP support in CSS. It's hard to do a lot more on ACP without being able to get implementation experience. For many this will come when there is CSS support
* Matthieu: I need to find time to make my implementation of ACP public.

ACTION: Matthieu to talk to Ruben and Joachim to understand where on the roadmap this can go and try to fit. Also where to fit readying and releasing the existing TypeScript implementation.

* Justin: I'm impressed how quickly features that get accepted for CSS get processed and implemented.


### Creator agent

* Henry: Is acp CreatorAgent a class?
* Matthieu: It's a Named Individual
* Henry: What relation it uses?
* Matthieu: `acp:agent`
* Henry: what is the subject?
* Matthieu: the subject would be a matcher. The agent can be matched agains agent, if it's CreatorAgent it would also need to be creator of the resource.

ACTION: Matthieu to write down example of CreatorAgent

* Henry: It would be good to see other matchers. CreatorAgent, PublicAgent, AuthenticatedAgent
* Matthieu: I can probably define OwnerAgent

### Discussing UMA style AC

* Elf: We were talking in authn about checking how UMA style authn plays with authz. I see it related to how to do interop and how to issue access token... I think we need to discuss it here. The role of an authorization server would be overlapping with both.
* Henry: UMA came up a few times and it's a whole different thing. How many people know/are interested about it here?
* Elf: Access token is also meant to address client authz. In that case we're looking at changes in Solid OIDC that affect authz.
* Henry: Why not opening an issue so that we can have a discussion about it? It's a lot of work to do another protocol like that.
* Justin: I think an issue is a good idea to bring everyone on the same page.
* ...: What are the actors in play end to end in the flow you're describing? With that base, we can discuss it next week.
* Henry: Perhaps do it in discussion?

ACTION: Elf to open a discussion on UMA. See how to coordinate the overlap between authn and authz.

